Despite having had talent in the more mystical arts from a young age, Asheviere never had any say over her own life. Both lacking a mother figure as well as having an overly controlling father led to her being shut away and forced to learn all the menial things she had no interest in. When the time came, she was married off at the age of 14 to the king of Wesnoth for political reasons, to solidify the ushering of southern Westin into the Wesnothian Empire. Having been forced to move to Weldyn, she found herself in a similar situation there, heavily guarded and mistrusted due to Garard's awareness of her propensity for the magical arts. From their perspective, she was just a tool to be sacrificed for the greater good, she supposed. There was logic in it, especially if they thought they could control her.

In Weldyn, she wasn't very popular at first. How could she be? Having been locked up by two old geezers and never having been taught anything besides menial household skills, she wouldn't have had the knowledge or experience or even opportunity to gain any allies. Not that she would have wanted to be friends with even more old geezers. People always assumed she hated men. If she were being honest with herself, that was probably kind of true, but her hatred was more directed at two people in particular.

Why was she the one who was sacrificed for the name of some arbitrary political unity? Who did these two old bags of bones think they were, trading her like some kind of prize to be used to make peace? In fact there was hardly any peace at all. She wasn't blind. Even in southern Westin, feuds with the neighboring elves were common and bandits and outlaw gangs were not well controlled. In the north, both father and son Garard were constantly warring with the orcs. It was something about expanding the borders of the glorious Wesnoth empire into those untamed lands as a way to show off the Throne's powerful leadership to the nobles. That was just a dream. Anyone from the borders could tell you that. But the rich and powerful were shielded from the conflict in their strongholds. It was disgusting. If she had her way with things, she would send them off to the frontlines and make them experience everything they had made everyone else suffer. Or maybe they could just die. That would be fine too.

When she met Vardu after that bloodbath by the Great River, she knew this was her opportunity. Maybe she couldn't gain any allies among those stuffy old nobles, but a resourceful orc might be willing to see reason. She wasn't clear on all the details but Vardu had snuck out of a larger clan and was masquerading as a male assassin in order to escape some "female duties". Asheviere didn't really have to pry further than that. Her idea was pretty simple. It was a win-win situation. Vardu had the skills and knowhow and motivation to rouse some of the more powerful chieftains against Garard and Wesnoth. This was a tricky balancing act to do since the separate chieftains were very unlikely to work together according to Vardu, so there would have to be a separate reason for each one to go to war against Garard. They all knew that individually acting against Wesnoth was suicide. So they would each have had to have knowledge that others were going to act first, or have had a good opportunity in order to take action. Once the situation got bad enough, Garard would have no choice but to go try to fix his pet project of "exterminating those pesky beasts across the river". At that point, there would hopefully be enough disgruntled nobles or others in the Wesnothian army to turn on the old geezer. Well, she could figure that part out later. The orc didn't need to know all the details.

From Asheviere's side, things were "straightfoward". There were several other powerful individuals, Maddock from Elensefar, Grand Marshal Haral, Great Mage Delfador, who would be vital to deposing Garard if they could be convinced that he were truly incompetent. It would be hard to get them to directly fight him on the battlefield, but the actual killing could be done by someone else, perhaps an orc, or perhaps other loyal agent she could sway to be under her command. All she had to do was to get them to remove their support for him. From Vardu's side, all she needed was a sufficient orcish force to pose a threat to the King's forces. It was too much to expect the orcs to be strong enough to overrun all of Wesnoth's armies combined, but if Wesnoth's forces were splintered, having Garard's company squashed was a possibility too.

- Let me point out that Asheviere at this point doesn't mention that she wants to rule Wesnoth. That's not her goal. Her main point is just to get revenge on Garard because she hates him. Her ascent to power is more out of happenstance, in her quest to get allies or at least turn people against Garard, she gets enough allies and enough opposition dies at the battle at the Great River that she ends up being the de facto leader of Wesnoth. She actually wanted Eldred to become the new King after Garard's death (once he was old enough), but obviously that couldn't happen since Delfador went zap.

From Vardu's side, it was a matter of convincing chieftains to rouse their hordes against Wesnoth. Splintered as they were, no individual would make the foolish choice of trying to assault Wesnoth's mighty armies by themself. There needed to be a way to trick them into pouncing on opportunities. So she needed to assassinate the leaders of some clans who were less likely to go to war, do things like set fire to some of their cities under the guise of being humans, poison other leaders, pass along some information when human generals were near and vulnerable (courtesy of Asheviere), and things like that. Then, when others were stirred to anger, she could spread rumors to each clan of others readying themselves for battle in order to rouse them all at the same time. The completion of these tasks marks the start of the war in 500 YW.